.github/SECURITY.md, before:

<div align="center">
  <img src="../public/hackgpt-logo.png" alt="HackGPT Enterprise Logo" width="200" height="auto">
</div>

# 🔒 Security Policy

## 🛡️ Supported Versions

The following versions of HackGPT Enterprise are currently supported with security updates:

| Version | Supported          | End of Life |
| ------- | ------------------ | ----------- |
| 2.0.x   | ✅ Yes             | TBD         |
| 1.x.x   | ⚠️ Limited Support | 2026-01-01  |
| < 1.0   | ❌ No              | 2025-12-31  |

## 🚨 Reporting a Vulnerability

### For Security Researchers and Users

If you discover a security vulnerability in HackGPT Enterprise, please help us maintain the security of our users by following responsible disclosure practices.

### 📧 Reporting Process

**Primary Contact:**
- **Email**: yashabalam707@gmail.com
- **Subject**: `[SECURITY] HackGPT Vulnerability Report`
- **PGP Key**: Available upon request

**Please Include:**
- **Vulnerability Description**: Clear, detailed description of the issue
- **Affected Versions**: Which versions of HackGPT are affected
- **Attack Vector**: How the vulnerability can be exploited
- **Impact Assessment**: Potential impact and severity
- **Proof of Concept**: Step-by-step reproduction (if safe to share)
- **Suggested Fix**: If you have ideas for remediation
- **Contact Information**: How we can reach you for follow-up

### 🔒 What to Expect

1. **Acknowledgment**: Within 24-48 hours of your report
2. **Initial Assessment**: Within 1 week
3. **Status Updates**: Every 7-14 days until resolution
4. **Coordinated Disclosure**: Timeline discussion for public disclosure
5. **Credit**: Public acknowledgment (if desired)

### ⚡ Response Timeline

| Severity | Initial Response | Fix Timeline |
|----------|------------------|--------------|
| **Critical** | < 24 hours | 1-7 days |
| **High** | < 48 hours | 7-30 days |
| **Medium** | < 1 week | 30-90 days |
| **Low** | < 2 weeks | Next release |

## 🎯 Vulnerability Scope

### ✅ In Scope
The following components are within scope for security research:

- **Core Application**: Main HackGPT Enterprise application
- **Web Interface**: Dashboard and user interfaces
- **API Endpoints**: REST API and authentication
- **Database Layer**: Data storage and retrieval
- **Authentication System**: User login and session management
- **File Processing**: Upload/download functionality
- **Network Communication**: Inter-service communication
- **Docker Containers**: Container security configurations
- **Dependencies**: Third-party libraries and components

### ❌ Out of Scope
The following are explicitly out of scope:

- **Denial of Service**: DoS/DDoS attacks against our infrastructure
- **Physical Security**: Physical access to systems
- **Social Engineering**: Attacks against our team members
- **Third-party Services**: Issues with external services we integrate with
- **Spam/Phishing**: Email spam or phishing attempts
- **Brute Force**: Credential brute force attacks with common passwords

## 🏆 Security Researcher Recognition

### 🎖️ Hall of Fame
We maintain a security researcher hall of fame to recognize those who help improve our security:

**Current Contributors:**
*List will be updated as researchers are acknowledged*

### 🎁 Acknowledgment Options
- **Public Recognition**: Listed in security advisories and hall of fame
- **Social Media**: Mentioned on ZehraSec social media channels
- **Conference Mentions**: Acknowledged at security conferences (when appropriate)
- **Anonymous**: Option to remain anonymous if preferred
- **Swag**: HackGPT and ZehraSec branded items for significant contributions

## 🚀 Bug Bounty Program

### 💰 Bounty Scope
While we don't currently have a formal bug bounty program, we do provide:

- **Recognition**: Public acknowledgment of your contribution
- **Merchandise**: ZehraSec branded items
- **Recommendation**: LinkedIn recommendations for your security research skills
- **Future Opportunities**: First consideration for any future bug bounty programs

**Bounty Considerations:**
- **Critical Vulnerabilities**: Remote code execution, authentication bypasses
- **High Impact**: Privilege escalation, data exposure
- **Unique Findings**: Novel attack vectors or bypass techniques
- **Quality Reports**: Well-documented findings with clear impact assessment

## 🔐 Security Measures

### 🛡️ Current Security Controls

**Application Security:**
- Input validation and sanitization
- SQL injection prevention
- XSS protection mechanisms
- CSRF token implementation
- Secure session management
- Password security requirements
- Rate limiting and throttling

**Infrastructure Security:**
- TLS 1.3 encryption in transit
- AES-256-GCM encryption at rest
- Multi-factor authentication support
- LDAP/Active Directory integration
- Container security scanning
- Dependency vulnerability scanning
- Regular security updates

**Development Security:**
- Secure development lifecycle (SDLC)
- Code review requirements
- Static application security testing (SAST)
- Dynamic application security testing (DAST)
- Dependency vulnerability scanning
- Container image scanning

### 🔍 Security Testing

**Regular Security Assessments:**
- Monthly automated vulnerability scans
- Quarterly penetration testing
- Annual third-party security audits
- Continuous dependency monitoring
- Container security scanning
- Code quality analysis

## 📚 Security Resources

### 🎓 Educational Materials
- [OWASP Top 10](https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/)
- [NIST Cybersecurity Framework](https://www.nist.gov/cyberframework)
- [Secure Coding Practices](https://owasp.org/www-project-secure-coding-practices-quick-reference-guide/)
- [Container Security Guide](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Docker_Security_Cheat_Sheet.html)

### 🔧 Security Tools
- **Static Analysis**: Bandit, SemGrep, CodeQL
- **Dependency Scanning**: Safety, Snyk, Dependabot
- **Container Scanning**: Trivy, Clair, Docker Scout
- **Network Security**: Nmap, Burp Suite, OWASP ZAP

## 🤝 Security Community

### 🌐 Connect with Us
- **GitHub**: [@yashab-cyber](https://github.com/yashab-cyber)
- **LinkedIn**: [Yashab Alam](https://linkedin.com/in/yashab-alam)
- **Company**: [ZehraSec](https://www.zehrasec.com)
- **WhatsApp**: [Business Channel](https://whatsapp.com/channel/0029Vaoa1GfKLaHlL0Kc8k1q)

### 🎯 Security Conferences
We may present HackGPT security research at:
- DEF CON
- Black Hat
- RSA Conference
- BSides events
- Local cybersecurity meetups

## ⚖️ Legal Guidelines

### 🔍 Authorized Testing
- **Permission Required**: Only test against systems you own or have explicit permission to test
- **Legal Compliance**: Follow all applicable laws and regulations
- **Responsible Disclosure**: Follow coordinated disclosure timelines
- **No Harm**: Avoid any actions that could harm users or systems

### 📄 Safe Harbor
We support security research conducted in accordance with this policy. We will not pursue legal action against researchers who:

- Follow the reporting process outlined above
- Do not access, modify, or delete user data
- Do not disrupt our services or infrastructure
- Do not publicly disclose vulnerabilities before coordinated disclosure
- Act in good faith to help improve security

## 📋 Security Compliance

### 🏢 Enterprise Compliance
HackGPT Enterprise supports compliance with:

- **SOC 2 Type II** (in progress)
- **ISO 27001** (planned)
- **OWASP ASVS Level 2**
- **NIST Cybersecurity Framework**
- **PCI DSS** (for payment processing)
- **GDPR** (for EU users)
- **CCPA** (for California users)

### 🔍 Audit Support
For enterprise customers requiring security audits:
- Security architecture documentation
- Penetration testing reports
- Vulnerability assessment reports
- Compliance certification status
- Security control implementation details

## 🔄 Policy Updates

This security policy is reviewed and updated quarterly to ensure it remains current with:
- Industry best practices
- Regulatory requirements
- Technology changes
- Community feedback
- Lessons learned from security research

**Last Updated**: August 18, 2025
**Next Review**: November 18, 2025
**Version**: 1.0

## 📞 Contact Information

**Security Team Lead**: Yashab Alam  
**Email**: yashabalam707@gmail.com  
**Company**: ZehraSec  
**Website**: [www.zehrasec.com](https://www.zehrasec.com)

---

**Thank you for helping keep HackGPT Enterprise and its users safe!**

*Made with ❤️ by the HackGPT Enterprise security team*

Commit message:

refactor: full code quality overhaul
- Lint: 916 ruff errors → 0 (auto-fix + manual fixes across 41 files)
- Types: full type annotations on hackgpt.py, mypy clean
- Tests: 98 tests passing, 26% coverage (test_core, test_security, test_config, test_enterprise)
- Security: hardened Dockerfile (multi-stage, non-root), docker-compose (localhost-only), InputValidator, RateLimiter
- CI: 5-job GitHub Actions pipeline (lint, type-check, security, test, docker)
- CodeQL: code scanning workflow with weekly schedule
- Pre-commit: ruff, mypy, bandit, gitleaks hooks
- datetime.utcnow() → timezone-aware datetime.now(tz=timezone.utc) across 18 files
- Updated .gitignore, pyproject.toml, SECURITY.md, README.md
- Added org/ templates (reusable-codeql.yml, checklist)
- Removed build artifacts and junk files

.github/SECURITY.md, after:

<div align="center">
  <img src="../public/hackgpt-logo.png" alt="HackGPT Enterprise Logo" width="200" height="auto">
</div>

# 🔒 Security Policy

## 🛡️ Supported Versions

The following versions of HackGPT Enterprise are currently supported with security updates:

| Version | Supported          | End of Life |
| ------- | ------------------ | ----------- |
| 2.0.x   | ✅ Yes             | TBD         |
| 1.x.x   | ⚠️ Limited Support | 2026-01-01  |
| < 1.0   | ❌ No              | 2025-12-31  |

## 🚨 Reporting a Vulnerability

### For Security Researchers and Users

If you discover a security vulnerability in HackGPT Enterprise, please help us maintain the security of our users by following responsible disclosure practices.

### 📧 Reporting Process

**Primary Contact:**
- **Email**: yashabalam707@gmail.com
- **Subject**: `[SECURITY] HackGPT Vulnerability Report`
- **PGP Key**: Available upon request

**Please Include:**
- **Vulnerability Description**: Clear, detailed description of the issue
- **Affected Versions**: Which versions of HackGPT are affected
- **Attack Vector**: How the vulnerability can be exploited
- **Impact Assessment**: Potential impact and severity
- **Proof of Concept**: Step-by-step reproduction (if safe to share)
- **Suggested Fix**: If you have ideas for remediation
- **Contact Information**: How we can reach you for follow-up

### 🔒 What to Expect

1. **Acknowledgment**: Within 24-48 hours of your report
2. **Initial Assessment**: Within 1 week
3. **Status Updates**: Every 7-14 days until resolution
4. **Coordinated Disclosure**: Timeline discussion for public disclosure
5. **Credit**: Public acknowledgment (if desired)

### ⚡ Response Timeline

| Severity | Initial Response | Fix Timeline |
|----------|------------------|--------------|
| **Critical** | < 24 hours | 1-7 days |
| **High** | < 48 hours | 7-30 days |
| **Medium** | < 1 week | 30-90 days |
| **Low** | < 2 weeks | Next release |

## 🎯 Vulnerability Scope

### ✅ In Scope
The following components are within scope for security research:

- **Core Application**: Main HackGPT Enterprise application
- **Web Interface**: Dashboard and user interfaces
- **API Endpoints**: REST API and authentication
- **Database Layer**: Data storage and retrieval
- **Authentication System**: User login and session management
- **File Processing**: Upload/download functionality
- **Network Communication**: Inter-service communication
- **Docker Containers**: Container security configurations
- **Dependencies**: Third-party libraries and components

### ❌ Out of Scope
The following are explicitly out of scope:

- **Denial of Service**: DoS/DDoS attacks against our infrastructure
- **Physical Security**: Physical access to systems
- **Social Engineering**: Attacks against our team members
- **Third-party Services**: Issues with external services we integrate with
- **Spam/Phishing**: Email spam or phishing attempts
- **Brute Force**: Credential brute force attacks with common passwords

## 🏆 Security Researcher Recognition

### 🎖️ Hall of Fame
We maintain a security researcher hall of fame to recognize those who help improve our security:

**Current Contributors:**
*List will be updated as researchers are acknowledged*

### 🎁 Acknowledgment Options
- **Public Recognition**: Listed in security advisories and hall of fame
- **Social Media**: Mentioned on ZehraSec social media channels
- **Conference Mentions**: Acknowledged at security conferences (when appropriate)
- **Anonymous**: Option to remain anonymous if preferred
- **Swag**: HackGPT and ZehraSec branded items for significant contributions

## 🚀 Bug Bounty Program

### 💰 Bounty Scope
While we don't currently have a formal bug bounty program, we do provide:

- **Recognition**: Public acknowledgment of your contribution
- **Merchandise**: ZehraSec branded items
- **Recommendation**: LinkedIn recommendations for your security research skills
- **Future Opportunities**: First consideration for any future bug bounty programs

**Bounty Considerations:**
- **Critical Vulnerabilities**: Remote code execution, authentication bypasses
- **High Impact**: Privilege escalation, data exposure
- **Unique Findings**: Novel attack vectors or bypass techniques
- **Quality Reports**: Well-documented findings with clear impact assessment

## 🔐 Security Measures

### 🛡️ Current Security Controls

**Application Security:**
- Input validation and sanitization
- SQL injection prevention
- XSS protection mechanisms
- CSRF token implementation
- Secure session management
- Password security requirements
- Rate limiting and throttling

**Infrastructure Security:**
- TLS 1.3 encryption in transit
- AES-256-GCM encryption at rest
- Multi-factor authentication support
- LDAP/Active Directory integration
- Container security scanning
- Dependency vulnerability scanning
- Regular security updates

**Development Security:**
- Secure development lifecycle (SDLC)
- Code review requirements
- Static application security testing (SAST)
- Dynamic application security testing (DAST)
- Dependency vulnerability scanning
- Container image scanning

### 🔍 Security Testing

**Regular Security Assessments:**
- Monthly automated vulnerability scans
- Quarterly penetration testing
- Annual third-party security audits
- Continuous dependency monitoring
- Container security scanning
- Code quality analysis

## 📚 Security Resources

### 🎓 Educational Materials
- [OWASP Top 10](https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/)
- [NIST Cybersecurity Framework](https://www.nist.gov/cyberframework)
- [Secure Coding Practices](https://owasp.org/www-project-secure-coding-practices-quick-reference-guide/)
- [Container Security Guide](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Docker_Security_Cheat_Sheet.html)

### 🔧 Security Tools
- **Static Analysis**: Bandit, SemGrep, CodeQL
- **Dependency Scanning**: Safety, Snyk, Dependabot
- **Container Scanning**: Trivy, Clair, Docker Scout
- **Network Security**: Nmap, Burp Suite, OWASP ZAP

## 🤝 Security Community

### 🌐 Connect with Us
- **GitHub**: [@yashab-cyber](https://github.com/yashab-cyber)
- **LinkedIn**: [Yashab Alam](https://linkedin.com/in/yashab-alam)
- **Company**: [ZehraSec](https://www.zehrasec.com)
- **WhatsApp**: [Business Channel](https://whatsapp.com/channel/0029Vaoa1GfKLaHlL0Kc8k1q)

### 🎯 Security Conferences
We may present HackGPT security research at:
- DEF CON
- Black Hat
- RSA Conference
- BSides events
- Local cybersecurity meetups

## ⚖️ Legal Guidelines

### 🔍 Authorized Testing
- **Permission Required**: Only test against systems you own or have explicit permission to test
- **Legal Compliance**: Follow all applicable laws and regulations
- **Responsible Disclosure**: Follow coordinated disclosure timelines
- **No Harm**: Avoid any actions that could harm users or systems

### 📄 Safe Harbor
We support security research conducted in accordance with this policy. We will not pursue legal action against researchers who:

- Follow the reporting process outlined above
- Do not access, modify, or delete user data
- Do not disrupt our services or infrastructure
- Do not publicly disclose vulnerabilities before coordinated disclosure
- Act in good faith to help improve security

## 📋 Security Compliance

### 🏢 Enterprise Compliance
HackGPT Enterprise supports compliance with:

- **SOC 2 Type II** (in progress)
- **ISO 27001** (planned)
- **OWASP ASVS Level 2**
- **NIST Cybersecurity Framework**
- **PCI DSS** (for payment processing)
- **GDPR** (for EU users)
- **CCPA** (for California users)

### 🔍 Audit Support
For enterprise customers requiring security audits:
- Security architecture documentation
- Penetration testing reports
- Vulnerability assessment reports
- Compliance certification status
- Security control implementation details

## 🔄 Policy Updates

This security policy is reviewed and updated quarterly to ensure it remains current with:
- Industry best practices
- Regulatory requirements
- Technology changes
- Community feedback
- Lessons learned from security research

**Last Updated**: August 18, 2025
**Next Review**: November 18, 2025
**Version**: 1.1

## 🔬 Code Scanning & Copilot Autofix

This repository uses **GitHub Code Scanning (CodeQL)** on every pull request and on a weekly schedule (Monday 3 AM UTC). Alerts appear under the **Security** tab and as PR annotations.

### How It Works

- **On PRs**: CodeQL analyzes JavaScript/TypeScript and Python code for vulnerabilities (injection, XSS, path traversal, insecure crypto, etc.)
- **Weekly**: A scheduled scan catches any issues that may have been missed or newly discovered
- **Copilot Autofix**: GitHub Copilot may suggest patches for certain alerts directly on the PR. Always review suggested fixes and run tests before merging — do not rely solely on automated fixes for high-risk changes.

### Scopes

| Language | Paths |
|----------|-------|
| JavaScript/TypeScript | `alpha/`, `HackGPTApp/`, root `.js` files |
| Python | `*.py`, `ai_engine/`, `cloud/`, `database/`, `exploitation/`, `hackgpt_mcp/`, `performance/`, `reporting/`, `security/` |
| Swift | `HackGPTApp/Sources/` (manual review — not in CodeQL matrix) |

### Required Checks

Before merging any PR, the following status checks must pass:
- **code-scanning** (CodeQL analysis)
- **build-and-test** (CI tests)

## 📞 Contact Information

**Security Team Lead**: Yashab Alam  
**Email**: yashabalam707@gmail.com  
**Company**: ZehraSec  
**Website**: [www.zehrasec.com](https://www.zehrasec.com)

---

**Thank you for helping keep HackGPT Enterprise and its users safe!**

*Made with ❤️ by the HackGPT Enterprise security team*
